# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

* [`storm::backend`](#stormbackend): StoRM Backend installation and configuration class.
* [`storm::backend::config`](#stormbackendconfig): StoRM Backend config class
* [`storm::backend::configdb`](#stormbackendconfigdb): StoRM Backend DB config class
* [`storm::backend::install`](#stormbackendinstall): StoRM Backend install class
* [`storm::backend::service`](#stormbackendservice): StoRM Backend service class
* [`storm::db`](#stormdb): Install MariaDB server and client, create empty databases 'storm_db' and 'storm_be_ISAM',
add storm user and all the necessary grants.
* [`storm::frontend`](#stormfrontend): StoRM Frontend puppet module
* [`storm::frontend::config`](#stormfrontendconfig): StoRM Frontend config class
* [`storm::frontend::install`](#stormfrontendinstall): StoRM Frontend install class
* [`storm::frontend::service`](#stormfrontendservice): StoRM Frontend service class
* [`storm::gridftp`](#stormgridftp): StoRM GridFTP installation and configuration class.
* [`storm::gridftp::config`](#stormgridftpconfig): StoRM GridFTP config class
* [`storm::gridftp::install`](#stormgridftpinstall): StoRM GridFTP install class
* [`storm::gridftp::service`](#stormgridftpservice): StoRM GridFTP service class
* [`storm::repo`](#stormrepo): Choose which StoRM repository you want to intall and enable. Also a custom list of repository URL can be specified.
* [`storm::users`](#stormusers): StoRM accounts configuration
* [`storm::webdav`](#stormwebdav): StoRM WebDAV puppet module
* [`storm::webdav::config`](#stormwebdavconfig): StoRM WebDAV config class
* [`storm::webdav::install`](#stormwebdavinstall): StoRM WebDAV install class
* [`storm::webdav::service`](#stormwebdavservice): StoRM WebDAV service class

### Defined types

* [`storm::backend::drop_in_file`](#stormbackenddrop_in_file): Use this define to inject one or more .conf files
into `/etc/systemd/system/storm-backend-server.service.d` directory.
* [`storm::backend::storage_site_report`](#stormbackendstorage_site_report): Starting from Puppet module v2.0.0, the management of Storage Site Report has been improved.
Site administrators can add script and cron described in the [how-to](http://italiangrid.github.io/storm/documentation/how-to/how-to-publish-json-report/)
* [`storm::backend::storm_properties_file`](#stormbackendstorm_properties_file): Define your own storm.properties file with an absolute path or a Puppet module relative path.
* [`storm::rootdir`](#stormrootdir): StoRM main storage area root directory defined resource
* [`storm::sarootdir`](#stormsarootdir): StoRM Storage Area root directory defined resource
* [`storm::webdav::application_file`](#stormwebdavapplication_file): Starting from Puppet module v2.0.0, the management of application.yml
file has been removed from storm::webdav class. Site administrators can edit
their own configuration files or use this defined type to inject one or more YAML
files into the proper directory.
* [`storm::webdav::drop_in_file`](#stormwebdavdrop_in_file): Use this define to inject one or more .conf files
into `/etc/systemd/system/storm-webdav.service.d` directory.
* [`storm::webdav::storage_area_file`](#stormwebdavstorage_area_file): Storage Areas can be configured singularly by using this defined type.
This strategy allows site administrators to keep their manifests unaware of
the improvements on StoRM WebDAV code. For example, if a new property is added
into Storage Area configuration files, you haven't to update your Puppet module
and all the service configuration will continue working.

### Functions

* [`storm::has_gpfs`](#stormhas_gpfs): Function that compute whether at least one of the configured storage areas is deployed on GPFS.

### Data types

* [`Storm::Backend::Acl`](#stormbackendacl): The ACL type for storm-backend-server
* [`Storm::Backend::AclMode`](#stormbackendaclmode): The AclMode type for storm-backend-server
* [`Storm::Backend::BalanceStrategy`](#stormbackendbalancestrategy): The BalanceStrategy type for storm-backend-server
* [`Storm::Backend::Endpoint`](#stormbackendendpoint): The Endpoint type for storm-backend-server
* [`Storm::Backend::FileSystem`](#stormbackendfilesystem): The FileSystem type for storm-backend-server
* [`Storm::Backend::FsDriver`](#stormbackendfsdriver): The FsDriver type for storm-backend-server
* [`Storm::Backend::FsType`](#stormbackendfstype): The FsType type for storm-backend-server
* [`Storm::Backend::Gsiftp`](#stormbackendgsiftp): The Gsiftp type for storm-backend-server
* [`Storm::Backend::GsiftpPoolMember`](#stormbackendgsiftppoolmember): The GsiftpPoolMember type for storm-backend-server
* [`Storm::Backend::Pool`](#stormbackendpool): The Pool type for storm-backend-server
* [`Storm::Backend::Quota`](#stormbackendquota): The Quota type for storm-backend-server
* [`Storm::Backend::Rfio`](#stormbackendrfio): The Rfio type for storm-backend-server
* [`Storm::Backend::SrmPoolMember`](#stormbackendsrmpoolmember): The SrmPoolMember type for storm-backend-server
* [`Storm::Backend::StorageArea`](#stormbackendstoragearea): The storage area type for storm-backend-server
* [`Storm::Backend::StorageClass`](#stormbackendstorageclass): The StorageClass type for storm-backend-server
* [`Storm::Backend::TransferProtocol`](#stormbackendtransferprotocol): The TransferProtocol type for storm-backend-server
* [`Storm::Backend::Webdav`](#stormbackendwebdav): The WebDAV type for storm-backend-server
* [`Storm::Backend::WebdavPoolMember`](#stormbackendwebdavpoolmember): The WebdavPoolMember type for storm-backend-server
* [`Storm::Backend::Xroot`](#stormbackendxroot): The Xroot type for storm-backend-server
* [`Storm::CustomRepo`](#stormcustomrepo): The storage area type for storm-webdav
* [`Storm::Webdav::StorageArea`](#stormwebdavstoragearea): The storage area type for storm-webdav.

## Classes

### `storm::backend`

It's recommended to set your own database password and XMLRPC/REST security token.
You also mainly need to configure your storage areas and the list of SRM, GridFTP and (in case) WebDAV endpoints.

<table>
  <thead> <tr> <th style="text-align: left;"> See also: </th> </tr> </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr><td>
      <a href="../puppet_data_type_aliases/Storm_3A_3ABackend_3A_3AStorageArea.html">Storm::Backend::StorageArea</a>
    </td></tr>
    <tr><td>
        <a href="../puppet_data_type_aliases/Storm_3A_3ABackend_3A_3AFsType.html">Storm::Backend::FsType</a>
    </td></tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Examples

##### Example of usage

```puppet
class { 'storm::backend':
  db_password => 'secret',
  security_token => 'secret',
  srm_pool_members => [
    {
      'hostname' => 'frontend.test.example',
    }
  ],
  gsiftp_pool_members => [
    {
      'hostname' => 'gridftp.test.example',
    },
  ],
  webdav_pool_members => [
    {
      'hostname' => 'webdav.test.example',
    },
  ],
  transfer_protocols => ['gsiftp', 'webdav'],
  storage_areas => [
    {
      'name'               => 'test.vo',
      'root_path'          => '/storage/test.vo',
      'storage_class'      => 'T0D1',
      'online_size'        => 4,
    },
  ],
}
```

##### Example with a provided 'storm.properties'

```puppet
class { 'storm::backend':
  storm_properties_file => '/path/to/your/storm.properties',
  db_password => 'my-secret-db-password',
  srm_pool_members => [
    {
      'hostname' => 'frontend.test.example',
    }
  ],
  gsiftp_pool_members => [
    {
      'hostname' => 'gridftp.test.example',
    },
  ],
  webdav_pool_members => [
    {
      'hostname' => 'webdav.test.example',
    },
  ],
  transfer_protocols => ['gsiftp', 'webdav'],
  storage_areas => [
    {
      'name'               => 'test.vo',
      'root_path'          => '/storage/test.vo',
      'storage_class'      => 'T0D1',
      'online_size'        => 4,
    },
  ],
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `storm::backend` class.

##### `storm_properties_file`

Data type: `String`

Use this to provide your own storm.properties file. This can be used for example when you're using the
latest module version to configure an old StoRM deployment. It's used when it has a non-empty value, and
it overwrites several other module parameters. Default value: empty string, that means not used.

##### `db_username`

Data type: `String`

The database connection user name to be passed to the JDBC driver to establish a connection. Default value: 'storm'

##### `db_password`

Data type: `String`

The database connection password to be passed to the JDBC driver to establish a connection. Default value: 'storm'.

##### `db_hostname`

Data type: `String`

Fully Qualified Domain Name of database hostname. It's initialized with fact ::fqdn.

##### `db_port`

Data type: `Integer`

Database connection URL port. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 3306.

##### `db_properties`

Data type: `String`

Database connection URL properties. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: serverTimezone=UTC&autoReconnect=true

##### `db_pool_size`

Data type: `Integer`

The maximum number of active connections that can be allocated from database connection pool at the same time,
or negative for no limit. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: -1.

##### `db_pool_min_idle`

Data type: `Integer`

The minimum number of connections that can remain idle in the pool, without extra ones being created, or zero
to create none. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 10.

##### `db_pool_max_wait_millis`

Data type: `Integer`

The maximum number of milliseconds that the pool will wait (when there are no available connections)
for a connection to be returned before throwing an exception, or -1 to wait indefinitely.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 5000.

##### `db_pool_test_on_borrow`

Data type: `Boolean`

The indication of whether objects will be validated before being borrowed from the pool. If the
object fails to validate, it will be dropped from the pool, and we will attempt to borrow another.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: true.

##### `db_pool_test_while_idle`

Data type: `Boolean`

The indication of whether objects will be validated by the idle object evictor (if any). If an object
fails to validate, it will be dropped from the pool. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set.
Default value: true.

##### `xroot_hostname`

Data type: `String`

If your deployment also consists of a xroot server, this is its FQDN in order to be used to provide valid
xroot TURL. Setting this parameter, the administrator provides a default value for all Storage Areas that
have 'xroot' as a transfer protocol. Note: you may overwrite this setting at single SA configuration level.
It's initialized with fact ::fqdn.

##### `xroot_port`

Data type: `Integer`

Xroot server port default value for all Storage Areas that have 'xroot' as a transfer protocol.
Note: you may overwrite this setting at single SA configuration level. Default value: 1094.

##### `gsiftp_pool_balance_strategy`

Data type: `Storm::Backend::BalanceStrategy`

Default load balancing strategy of GridFTP server pool for all the Storage Areas.
Note: you may overwrite this setting at single SA configuration level.
Available values: 'round-robin', 'smart-rr', 'random', 'weight'. Default value: 'round-robin'.

##### `gsiftp_pool_members`

Data type: `Array[Storm::Backend::GsiftpPoolMember]`

Default GridFTP servers pool list for all Storage Areas.
Note: you may overwrite this setting at single SA configuration level. Default value: empty array.

##### `webdav_pool_members`

Data type: `Array[Storm::Backend::WebdavPoolMember]`

Default WebDAV endpoint pool list for all Storage Areas.
Note: you may overwrite this setting at single SA configuration level. Default value: empty array.

##### `srm_pool_members`

Data type: `Array[Storm::Backend::SrmPoolMember]`

Default SRM endpoint pool list for all Storage Areas (the Frontend list).
Note: you may overwrite this setting at single SA configuration level. Default value: empty array.

##### `transfer_protocols`

Data type: `Array[Storm::Backend::TransferProtocol]`

Default list of supported (and published) transfer protocols for all Storage Areas.
Note: you may overwrite this setting at single SA configuration level. Default value: ['file', 'gsiftp']

##### `fs_type`

Data type: `Storm::Backend::FsType`

Default File System Type value for all Storage Areas. Note: you may overwrite this setting at single SA configuration
level. Available values: 'posixfs', 'gpfs' and 'test'. Default value: 'posixfs'

##### `storage_areas`

Data type: `Array[Storm::Backend::StorageArea]`

The list of the managed storage areas. For each storage area a proper configuration must be provided.
Default value: empty array.

##### `rest_server_port`

Data type: `Integer`

REST services endpoint port on which the server is listening and accepting connections.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 9998.

##### `rest_server_max_threads`

Data type: `Integer`

The maximum number of parallel requests run by REST endpoint server.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 100.

##### `rest_server_max_queue_size`

Data type: `Integer`

Internal REST services endpoint max queue size of accepted requests.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 1000.

##### `xmlrpc_server_port`

Data type: `Integer`

XMLRPC server endpoint port where backend listens for incoming XML-RPC connections from Frontends(s).
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 8080.

##### `xmlrpc_server_max_threads`

Data type: `Integer`

Number of threads managing XML-RPC connection from Frontends(s). A well sized value for this parameter
have to be at least equal to the sum of the number of working threads in all FrontEend(s).
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 256.

##### `xmlrpc_server_max_queue_size`

Data type: `Integer`

Max number of accepted and queued XML-RPC connection from Frontends(s).
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 1000.

##### `du_service_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`

Flag to enable Disk Usage service. The Disk Usage service is used for a periodic update of the used-space of
all the storage spaces that are not GPFS-with-quota-enabled. This periodic update consists of a
'du -s -b' executed on the storage area root directory. By default, the service is disabled.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: false.

##### `du_service_initial_delay`

Data type: `Integer`

The initial delay before the service is started (seconds). Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set.
Default value: 60.

##### `du_service_tasks_interval`

Data type: `Integer`

The interval in seconds between successive run. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 360.

##### `du_service_parallel_tasks_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enable/disable parallel execution for du tasks. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: false.

##### `security_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`

Whether the backend will require a token to be present for accepting XML-RPC/REST requests.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: true.

##### `security_token`

Data type: `String`

The token that the backend will require to be present for accepting XML-RPC/REST requests.
Mandatory if `security_enabled` is true. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set.
Default value: 'secret'

##### `sanity_checks_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enable/disable sanity checks during bootstrap phase. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set.
Default value: true.

##### `inprogress_requests_agent_delay`

Data type: `Integer`

Initial delay in seconds before starting the inprogress requests agent. This agent transits
expired get/put requests from SRM_FILE_PINNED or SRM_SPACE_AVAILABLE to a final state.
A request is expired if pinLifetime is reached. This agent also transits ptp that are stuck
in SRM_REQUEST_IN_PROGRESS for more than `ptp_expiration_time`. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set.
Default value: 10.

##### `inprogress_requests_agent_interval`

Data type: `Integer`

Time interval in seconds between two agent executions. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set.
Default value: 300.

##### `inprogress_requests_agent_ptp_expiration_time`

Data type: `Integer`

Time in seconds to consider an in-progress ptp request as expired.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 2592000.

##### `expired_spaces_agent_delay`

Data type: `Integer`

Initial delay in seconds before starting the expired spaces agent. The expired spaces agent removes
expired reserved spaces. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 10.

##### `expired_spaces_agent_interval`

Data type: `Integer`

Time interval in seconds between two agent executions. Default value: 300.

##### `completed_requests_agent_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enable/Disable the completed requests agent. This agent deletes from database a bunch of `purge_size`
requests that are in a final status, older than `purge_age` seconds. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set.
Default value: true.

##### `completed_requests_agent_delay`

Data type: `Integer`

Initial delay in seconds before starting the requests garbage collection process.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 10.

##### `completed_requests_agent_interval`

Data type: `Integer`

Time interval in seconds between two agent executions. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set.
Default value: 300.

##### `completed_requests_agent_purge_size`

Data type: `Integer`

The size of the maximum deleted requests at each agent execution. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set.
Default value: 800.

##### `completed_requests_agent_purge_age`

Data type: `Integer`

The age in seconds after that the completed requests can be considered as removable.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 21600.

##### `requests_picker_agent_delay`

Data type: `Integer`

Initial delay in seconds before starting the requests garbage collection process.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 1.

##### `requests_picker_agent_interval`

Data type: `Integer`

Time interval in seconds between two agent executions. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set.
Default value: 2.

##### `requests_picker_agent_max_fetched_size`

Data type: `Integer`

Maximum number of picked requests at each execution. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set.
Default value: 100.

##### `requests_scheduler_core_pool_size`

Data type: `Integer`

Requests scheduler worker pool base size. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 10.

##### `requests_scheduler_max_pool_size`

Data type: `Integer`

Requests scheduler worker pool max size. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 50.

##### `requests_scheduler_queue_size`

Data type: `Integer`

Requests scheduler worker pool queue size. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 1000.

##### `ptp_scheduler_core_pool_size`

Data type: `Integer`

Ptp requests scheduler worker pool base size. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 50.

##### `ptp_scheduler_max_pool_size`

Data type: `Integer`

Ptp requests scheduler worker pool max size. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 200.

##### `ptp_scheduler_queue_size`

Data type: `Integer`

Ptp requests scheduler worker pool queue size. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 1000.

##### `ptg_scheduler_core_pool_size`

Data type: `Integer`

Ptg requests scheduler worker pool base size. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 50.

##### `ptg_scheduler_max_pool_size`

Data type: `Integer`

Ptg requests scheduler worker pool max size. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 200.

##### `ptg_scheduler_queue_size`

Data type: `Integer`

Ptg requests scheduler worker pool queue size. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 2000.

##### `bol_scheduler_core_pool_size`

Data type: `Integer`

Bol requests scheduler worker pool base size. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 50.

##### `bol_scheduler_max_pool_size`

Data type: `Integer`

Bol requests scheduler worker pool max size. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 200.

##### `bol_scheduler_queue_size`

Data type: `Integer`

Bol requests scheduler worker pool queue size. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 2000.

##### `extraslashes_file`

Data type: `String`

Specify extra slashes (or a prefix) after the “authority” part of a File TURL.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: empty string.

##### `extraslashes_rfio`

Data type: `String`

Specify extra slashes (or a prefix) after the “authority” part of a RFIO TURL.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: empty string.

##### `extraslashes_gsiftp`

Data type: `String`

Specify extra slashes (or a prefix) after the “authority” part of a GsiFTP TURL.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: /.

##### `extraslashes_root`

Data type: `String`

Specify extra slashes (or a prefix) after the “authority” part of a Root TURL.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: /.

##### `skip_ptg_acl_setup`

Data type: `Boolean`

Skip ACL setup for PtG requests. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set.

##### `synch_ls_max_entries`

Data type: `Integer`

SRM ls maximum number of entries returned. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 2000.

##### `synch_ls_default_all_level_recursive`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enable/disable an all level response for SRM ls. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set.
Default value: false.

##### `synch_ls_default_num_levels`

Data type: `Integer`

Default number of levels returned by SRM ls. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 1.

##### `synch_ls_default_offset`

Data type: `Integer`

Default offset used by SRM ls. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 0.

##### `files_default_size`

Data type: `Integer`

Default file size. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 1000000

##### `files_default_lifetime`

Data type: `Integer`

Default FileLifetime in seconds used for VOLATILE file in case of SRM request.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 259200.

##### `files_default_overwrite`

Data type: `Enum['N', 'A', 'D']`

Default file overwrite mode to use upon srmPrepareToPut requests. Possible values are N (Never),
A (Always), D (when files Differs). Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: A.

##### `files_default_storagetype`

Data type: `Enum['V', 'D', 'P']`

Default File Storage Type to be used for srmPrepareToPut requests. Possible values are  V (Volatile),
P (Permanent) and  D (Durable). Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: P.

##### `directories_enable_automatic_creation`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enable/disable the automatic directory creation during srmPrepareToPut requests.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: false.

##### `directories_enable_writeperm_on_creation`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enable/disable write permission on directory created through srmMkDir requests.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: false.

##### `pinlifetime_default`

Data type: `Integer`

Default pinLifetime in seconds used for pinning files in case of srmPrepareToPut or srmPrapareToGet
requests. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 259200.

##### `pinlifetime_maximum`

Data type: `Integer`

Maximum allowed value for pinLifeTime. Values beyond the max will be dropped to max value.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 1814400.

##### `hearthbeat_bookkeeping_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`

Advanced settings for hearthbeat log. Enable/disable hearthbeat also bookkeeping.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: false

##### `hearthbeat_performance_measuring_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`

Advanced settings for hearthbeat log. Enable/disable hearthbeat performance measuring for bookkeeping.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: false

##### `hearthbeat_period`

Data type: `Integer`

Advanced settings for hearthbeat log. Interval of logging executions in seconds.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 60.

##### `hearthbeat_performance_logbook_time_interval`

Data type: `Integer`

Advanced settings for hearthbeat log. Performance logbook time interval.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 15.

##### `hearthbeat_performance_glance_time_interval`

Data type: `Integer`

Advanced settings for hearthbeat log. Performance glance time interval.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 15.

##### `info_quota_refresh_period`

Data type: `Integer`

Time interval between two runs of GPFS quota agent. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set.
Default value: 900.

##### `http_turl_prefix`

Data type: `String`

Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: empty string.

##### `server_pool_status_check_timeout`

Data type: `Integer`

Lifetime in seconds of the cached status of a GsiFTP server in list.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 20000.

##### `abort_maxloop`

Data type: `Integer`

Max abort internal tentatives. Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: 10.

##### `ping_properties_filename`

Data type: `String`

File name containing key-value properties that must be appended to SRM Ping body returned.
Ignored if `storm_properties_file` is set. Default value: ping-values.properties.

##### `info_config_file`

Data type: `String`

Path of the Info Provider main configuration file auto-generated.

##### `info_sitename`

Data type: `String`

It’s the human-readable name of your site used to set the Glue-SiteName attribute. Default value: 'StoRM site'.

##### `info_storage_default_root`

Data type: `String`

Default directory for Storage Areas.

##### `info_endpoint_quality_level`

Data type: `Integer`

Endpoint maturity level to be published by the StoRM info provider. Default value: 2.

##### `jvm_options`

Data type: `String`

Default value: '-Xms512m -Xmx512m'

##### `lcmaps_db_file`

Data type: `String`

Default value: '/etc/storm/backend-server/lcmaps.db'.

##### `lcmaps_policy_name`

Data type: `String`

Default value: 'standard'.

##### `lcmaps_log_file`

Data type: `String`

Default value: '/var/log/storm/lcmaps.log'.

##### `lcmaps_debug_level`

Data type: `Integer`

Default value: 0.

##### `storm_limit_nofile`

Data type: `Integer`

Sets LimitNOFILE value. Default value: 65535.

##### `path_authz_db_file`

Data type: `String`

If not an empty string, set the content of your path-authz.db file from this source path.
Default value: empty string.

##### `debug`

Data type: `Boolean`



### `storm::backend::config`

StoRM Backend config class

### `storm::backend::configdb`

StoRM Backend DB config class

### `storm::backend::install`

StoRM Backend install class

### `storm::backend::service`

StoRM Backend service class

### `storm::db`

Install MariaDB server and client, create empty databases 'storm_db' and 'storm_be_ISAM',
add storm user and all the necessary grants.

#### Examples

##### Basic usage:

```puppet
include storm::db
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `storm::db` class.

##### `fqdn_hostname`

Data type: `String`

The Fully Qualified Domain Name of the host. Default value got from Puppet fact `fqdn`.

Default value: `$::fqdn`

##### `root_password`

Data type: `String`

MySQL root password. Default: 'storm'.

##### `storm_username`

Data type: `String`

The username of the user used by storm services to query the databases. Default 'storm'.

##### `storm_password`

Data type: `String`

The password of 'storm' username used by storm services to access the databases. Default: 'storm'.

##### `override_options`

Data type: `Data`

MySQL server override options. Read more about this at https://forge.puppet.com/puppetlabs/mysql/reference#override_options.

##### `limit_no_file`

Data type: `Integer`

MariaDB setting for limitNoFile

### `storm::frontend`

StoRM Frontend puppet module

#### Examples

##### Example of usage

```puppet
class { 'storm::frontend':
  be_xmlrpc_host  => 'storm-backend.host.org',
  be_xmlrpc_token => 'my-secret-xmlrpc-token',
  db_host         => 'storm-backend.host.org',
  db_passwd       => 'my-secret-db-password',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `storm::frontend` class.

##### `storm_frontend_server_conf_file`

Data type: `String`

Use this parameter to provide your own storm-frontend-server.conf file.
This can be used, for example, when you're using the latest module version
to configure an old StoRM deployment. This parameter is used only when it has
a non-empty value and it overwrites several other module parameters.
Default value: empty string (that means not used).

##### `be_xmlrpc_host`

Data type: `String`

StoRM Backend hostname.

Default value: `$::fqdn`

##### `be_xmlrpc_port`

Data type: `Integer`

StoRM Backend XML-RPC server port. Default value: 8080.

##### `be_xmlrpc_token`

Data type: `String`

Security token used for communicating with StoRM Backend. Mandatory.

##### `be_xmlrpc_path`

Data type: `String`

StoRM Backend XML-RPC server path. Default value: '/RPC2'.

##### `be_recalltable_port`

Data type: `Integer`

StoRM Backend REST server port running on the Backend machine. Default value: 9998.

##### `db_host`

Data type: `String`

Host for database connection.

Default value: `$be_xmlrpc_host`

##### `db_user`

Data type: `String`

User for database connection. Default value: 'storm'.

##### `db_passwd`

Data type: `String`

Password for database connection. Default value: 'storm'.

##### `port`

Data type: `Integer`

Frontend service port. Default value: 8444.

##### `threadpool_maxpending`

Data type: `Integer`

Size of the internal queue used to maintain SRM tasks in case there are no free worker threads.
Default value: 200.

##### `threadpool_threads_number`

Data type: `Integer`

Size of the worker thread pool. Default value: 50.

##### `gsoap_maxpending`

Data type: `Integer`

Size of the GSOAP queue used to maintain pending SRM requests. Default value: 1000.

##### `check_user_blacklisting`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enable/disable user blacklisting. Default value: false.

##### `argus_pepd_endpoint`

Data type: `String`

The complete service endpoint of Argus PEP server. Mandatory if `check_user_blacklisting` is true.

##### `monitoring_enabled`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enable/disable monitoring. Default value: true.

##### `monitoring_time_interval`

Data type: `Integer`

Time interval in seconds between each monitoring round. Default value: 60.

##### `monitoring_detailed`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enable/disable detailed monitoring. Default value: false.

##### `security_enable_vomscheck`

Data type: `Boolean`

Flag to enable/disable checking proxy VOMS credentials. Default value: true.

##### `log_debuglevel`

Data type: `String`

Logging level. Possible values are: ERROR, WARN, INFO, DEBUG, DEBUG2. Default value: INFO.

##### `gridmap_dir`

Data type: `String`

Gridmap directory path. Defailt value: '/etc/grid-security/gridmapdir'.

##### `gridmap_file`

Data type: `String`

Gridmap file path. Defailt value: '/etc/grid-security/grid-mapfile'.

### `storm::frontend::config`

StoRM Frontend config class

### `storm::frontend::install`

StoRM Frontend install class

### `storm::frontend::service`

StoRM Frontend service class

### `storm::gridftp`

StoRM GridFTP installation and configuration class.

#### Examples

##### Example of usage with default configuration values

```puppet
include 'storm::gridftp'
```

##### Example of usage with some custom parameters

```puppet
class { 'storm::gridftp':
  port_range => '20000,40000',
  connections_max => 5000,
}
```

##### Example of usage with a provided gridftp.conf

```puppet
class { 'storm::gridftp':
  gridftp_conf_file => '/path/to/your/gridftp.conf',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `storm::gridftp` class.

##### `gridftp_conf_file`

Data type: `String`

Use this to provide a source file to be used as your own /etc/grid-security/gridftp.conf configuration file.
Ignored if set to an empty string. In case of a proper value, all the other class parameters will be ignored.
Default value: empty string.

##### `port`

Data type: `Integer`

The port used by GridFTP server service. Default value: 2811.

##### `port_range`

Data type: `String`

The range of ports used by transfer sockets; format is 'MIN,MAX'. Default value: '20000,25000'.

##### `connections_max`

Data type: `Integer`

The number of max allowed connections to server. Default value: 2000.

##### `log_level`

Data type: `String`

A comma separated list of levels from: ERROR, WARN, INFO, TRANSFER, DUMP, ALL. TRANSFER includes the same
statistics that are sent to the separate transfer log when -log-transfer is used. Example: error,warn,info. You may also specify a
numeric level of 1-255. Default value: 'ERROR,WARN,INFO'.

##### `log_single`

Data type: `String`

Session log file path. Default value: '/var/log/storm/storm-gridftp-session.log'.

##### `log_transfer`

Data type: `String`

Transfer log file path. Default value: '/var/log/storm/storm-globus-gridftp.log'.

##### `config_base_path`

Data type: `String`

Base path to use when config and log path options are not full paths. By default this is the current directory
when the process is started. Default value: '/'.

##### `redirect_lcmaps_log`

Data type: `Boolean`

If true, redirect the LCMAPS log to the file specified by 'llgt_log_file'. Default value: false.

##### `llgt_log_file`

Data type: `String`

The LCMAPS log file used if 'redirect_lcmaps_log' is true. Default value: '/var/log/storm/storm-gridftp-lcmaps.log'.

##### `lcmaps_debug_level`

Data type: `Integer`

The LCMAPS logging level. Values from 0 (ERROR) to 5 (DEBUG). Default value: 3 (INFO)

##### `lcas_debug_level`

Data type: `Integer`

The LCAS logging level. Values from 0 (ERROR) to 5 (DEBUG). Default value: 3 (INFO)

##### `load_storm_dsi_module`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enable/Disable StoRM DSI module. Default value: true (enabled)

### `storm::gridftp::config`

StoRM GridFTP config class

### `storm::gridftp::install`

StoRM GridFTP install class

### `storm::gridftp::service`

StoRM GridFTP service class

### `storm::repo`

Choose which StoRM repository you want to intall and enable. Also a custom list of repository URL can be specified.

#### Examples

##### Install all the repositories and enable only nightly repo as follow:

```puppet
class { 'storm::repo':
  enabled => ['stable'],
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `storm::repo` class.

##### `installed`

Data type: `Array[Enum['stable', 'beta', 'nightly']]`

The list of repositories that have to be installed. Allowed values are `stable`, `beta` and `nightly`. Optional.

##### `enabled`

Data type: `Array[Enum['stable', 'beta', 'nightly']]`

The list of repositories that have to be enabled. Allowed values are `stable`, `beta` and `nightly`. Optional.

##### `extra`

Data type: `Array[Storm::CustomRepo]`

A list of repository that have to be created. Optional.

### `storm::users`

Parameters
----------

StoRM needs a 'storm' Unix user, member of an 'edguser' group.
This class creates all the necessary users.

#### Examples

##### Example of usage

```puppet
class { 'storm::users':
  groups => {
    'infosys' => {
      gid => '996',
    },
  },
  users => {
    'edguser' => {
      'comment' => 'Edguser user',
      'groups'  => [ edguser, infosys, storm, ],
      'uid'     => '995',
      'gid'     => '995',
    },
    'storm' => {
      'comment' => 'StoRM user',
      'groups'  => [ storm, edguser, ],
      'uid'     => '991',
      'gid'     => '991',
    },
  }
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `storm::users` class.

##### `groups`

Data type: `Accounts::Group::Hash`



##### `users`

Data type: `Accounts::User::Hash`



### `storm::webdav`

StoRM WebDAV puppet module

#### Examples

##### Basic usage

```puppet

class { 'storm::webdav':
  storage_areas => [
    {
      # minimal configuration
      name                       => 'test.vo',
      root_path                  => '/storage/test.vo',
    },
    {
      name                       => 'test.vo.2',
      root_path                  => '/storage/test.vo.2',
      access_points              => ['/test.vo.2', '/test2'],
      vos                        => ['test.vo', 'test.vo.2'],
      authenticated_read_enabled => true,
      anonymous_read_enabled     => true,
      vo_map_enabled             => false,
    },
  ],
  hostnames => ['storm-webdav.example.org', 'storm-webdav-alias.example.org'],
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `storm::webdav` class.

##### `storage_areas`

Data type: `Array[Storm::Webdav::StorageArea]`

List of storage area's configuration. Default value: empty list.

##### `hostnames`

Data type: `Array[String]`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_HOSTNAME_(N) environment variables.

Default value: `[ $::fqdn ]`

##### `http_port`

Data type: `Integer`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_HTTP_PORT environment variable.

##### `https_port`

Data type: `Integer`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_HTTPS_PORT environment variable.

##### `trust_anchors_refresh_interval`

Data type: `Integer`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_TRUST_ANCHORS_REFRESH_INTERVAL environment variable.

##### `max_concurrent_connections`

Data type: `Integer`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_MAX_CONNECTIONS environment variable.

##### `max_queue_size`

Data type: `Integer`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_MAX_QUEUE_SIZE environment variable.

##### `connector_max_idle_time`

Data type: `Integer`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_CONNECTOR_MAX_IDLE_TIME environment variable.

##### `vo_map_files_enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_VO_MAP_FILES_ENABLE environment variable.

##### `vo_map_files_config_dir`

Data type: `String`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_VO_MAP_FILES_CONFIG_DIR environment variable.

##### `vo_map_files_refresh_interval`

Data type: `Integer`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_VO_MAP_FILES_REFRESH_INTERVAL environment variable.

##### `tpc_max_connections`

Data type: `Integer`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_TPC_MAX_CONNECTIONS environment variable.

##### `tpc_max_connections_per_route`

Data type: `Integer`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_TPC_MAX_CONNECTIONS_PER_ROUTE environment variable.

##### `tpc_verify_checksum`

Data type: `Boolean`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_TPC_VERIFY_CHECKSUM environment variable.

##### `tpc_timeout_in_secs`

Data type: `Integer`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_TPC_TIMEOUT_IN_SECS environment variable.

##### `tpc_tls_protocol`

Data type: `String`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_TPC_TLS_PROTOCOL environment variable.

##### `tpc_report_delay_secs`

Data type: `Integer`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_TPC_REPORT_DELAY_SECS environment variable.

##### `tpc_enable_tls_client_auth`

Data type: `Boolean`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_TPC_ENABLE_TLS_CLIENT_AUTH environment variable.

##### `tpc_progress_report_thread_pool_size`

Data type: `Integer`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_TPC_PROGRESS_REPORT_THREAD_POOL_SIZE environment variable.

##### `jvm_opts`

Data type: `String`

Sets part of STORM_WEBDAV_JVM_OPTS environment variable.

##### `authz_server_enable`

Data type: `Boolean`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_AUTHZ_SERVER_ENABLE environment variable.

##### `authz_server_issuer`

Data type: `String`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_AUTHZ_SERVER_ISSUER environment variable if authz_server_enable is true.

##### `authz_server_max_token_lifetime_sec`

Data type: `Integer`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_AUTHZ_SERVER_MAX_TOKEN_LIFETIME_SEC environment variable if authz_server_enable is true.

##### `authz_server_secret`

Data type: `String`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_AUTHZ_SERVER_SECRET environment variable if authz_server_enable is true.

##### `require_client_cert`

Data type: `Boolean`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_REQUIRE_CLIENT_CERT environment variable.

##### `use_conscrypt`

Data type: `Boolean`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_USE_CONSCRYPT environment variable.

##### `tpc_use_conscrypt`

Data type: `Boolean`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_TPC_USE_CONSCRYPT environment variable.

##### `enable_http2`

Data type: `Boolean`

Sets STORM_WEBDAV_ENABLE_HTTP2 environment variable.

##### `debug`

Data type: `Boolean`

Sets part of STORM_WEBDAV_JVM_OPTS environment variable. It enables remote debug.

##### `debug_port`

Data type: `Integer`

Sets part of STORM_WEBDAV_JVM_OPTS environment variable. It sets the remote debug port if remote debug is enabled.

##### `debug_suspend`

Data type: `Boolean`

Sets part of STORM_WEBDAV_JVM_OPTS environment variable. It sets debug suspend value in case remote debug is enabled.

##### `storm_limit_nofile`

Data type: `Integer`

Sets LimitNOFILE value.

##### `ensure_empty_storage_area_dir`

Data type: `Boolean`



### `storm::webdav::config`

StoRM WebDAV config class

### `storm::webdav::install`

StoRM WebDAV install class

### `storm::webdav::service`

StoRM WebDAV service class

## Defined types

### `storm::backend::drop_in_file`

Use this define to inject one or more .conf files
into `/etc/systemd/system/storm-backend-server.service.d` directory.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
class { 'storm::backend':
  # backend parameters
}
storm::backend::drop_in_file { 'override.conf':
  source => '/path/to/my/override.conf',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `storm::backend::drop_in_file` defined type.

##### `source`

Data type: `Any`

The source of file resource. It can be an absolute path or a Puppet module relative path.

### `storm::backend::storage_site_report`

  by using this defined type.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
class { 'storm::backend':
  # ...
}
storm::backend::storage_site_report { 'storage-site-report':
  report_path => '/storage/info/report.json', # the internal storage area path
  minute      => '*/20', # set cron's minute
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `storm::backend::storage_site_report` defined type.

##### `report_path`

Data type: `String`

The full path of the generated report. Usually it points to a "info" storage area.

##### `minute`

Data type: `String`

The cron job's minute parameter. Refer to [Resource Type cron](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/5.5/types/cron.html#cron-attribute-minute).

Default value: `'*/30'`

### `storm::backend::storm_properties_file`

Define your own storm.properties file with an absolute path or a Puppet module relative path.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
storm::backend::storm_properties_file { 'my-storm-properties':
  source => '/path/to/my/storm.properties',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `storm::backend::storm_properties_file` defined type.

##### `source`

Data type: `Any`

The source of your storm.properties file resource. It can be an absolute path or a Puppet module relative path.

### `storm::rootdir`

StoRM main storage area root directory defined resource

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `storm::rootdir` defined type.

##### `mode`

Data type: `String`



Default value: `'0755'`

### `storm::sarootdir`

StoRM Storage Area root directory defined resource

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `storm::sarootdir` defined type.

##### `mode`

Data type: `String`



Default value: `'0750'`

### `storm::webdav::application_file`

Starting from Puppet module v2.0.0, the management of application.yml
file has been removed from storm::webdav class. Site administrators can edit
their own configuration files or use this defined type to inject one or more YAML
files into the proper directory.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
class { 'storm::webdav':
  hostnames => ['storm-webdav.test.example', 'alias-for-storm-webdav.test.example'],
}
storm::webdav::application_file { 'application.yml':
  source => '/path/to/my/application.yml',
}
storm::webdav::application_file { 'application-wlcg.yml':
  source => '/path/to/my/application-wlcg.yml',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `storm::webdav::application_file` defined type.

##### `source`

Data type: `Any`

The source of file resource. It can be an absolute path or a Puppet module relative path.

### `storm::webdav::drop_in_file`

Use this define to inject one or more .conf files
into `/etc/systemd/system/storm-webdav.service.d` directory.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
class { 'storm::webdav':
  # storm webdav parameters
}
storm::webdav::drop_in_file { 'override.conf':
  source => '/path/to/my/override.conf',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `storm::webdav::drop_in_file` defined type.

##### `source`

Data type: `Any`

The source of file resource. It can be an absolute path or a Puppet module relative path.

### `storm::webdav::storage_area_file`

Storage Areas can be configured singularly by using this defined type.
This strategy allows site administrators to keep their manifests unaware of
the improvements on StoRM WebDAV code. For example, if a new property is added
into Storage Area configuration files, you haven't to update your Puppet module
and all the service configuration will continue working.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
class { 'storm::webdav':
  hostnames => ['storm-webdav.test.example', 'alias-for-storm-webdav.test.example'],
}
storm::webdav::storage_area_file { 'test.vo.properties':
  source => '/path/to/my/test.vo.properties',
}
storm::webdav::storage_area_file { 'test.vo.2.properties':
  source => '/path/to/my/test.vo.2.properties',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `storm::webdav::storage_area_file` defined type.

##### `source`

Data type: `Any`

The source of file resource. It can be an absolute path or a Puppet module relative path.

## Functions

### `storm::has_gpfs`

Type: Ruby 4.x API

Function that compute whether at least one of the configured storage areas is deployed on GPFS.

#### `storm::has_gpfs(Storm::Backend::FsType $fs_type, Array[Storm::Backend::StorageArea] $storage_areas)`

Function that compute whether at least one of the configured storage areas is deployed on GPFS.

Returns: `Boolean` Returns true if at least one of the configured storage area has GPFS as its file system.

##### `fs_type`

Data type: `Storm::Backend::FsType`

the default fs type value for all the storage areas

##### `storage_areas`

Data type: `Array[Storm::Backend::StorageArea]`

the storage areas configuration.

## Data types

### `Storm::Backend::Acl`

The ACL type for storm-backend-server

Alias of `Struct[{
  group => String,
  permission => Enum['R', 'W', 'RW'],
}]`

### `Storm::Backend::AclMode`

The AclMode type for storm-backend-server

Alias of `Enum['AoT', 'JiT']`

### `Storm::Backend::BalanceStrategy`

The BalanceStrategy type for storm-backend-server

Alias of `Enum['round-robin', 'smart-rr', 'random', 'weight']`

### `Storm::Backend::Endpoint`

The Endpoint type for storm-backend-server

Alias of `Struct[{
  schema   => Enum['rfio','xroot','gsiftp','srm','http','https'],
  hostname => String,
  port     => Integer,
  path     => String,
}]`

### `Storm::Backend::FileSystem`

The FileSystem type for storm-backend-server

Alias of `Struct[{
  type => Enum['ext3', 'gpfs'],
  driver => Enum['posixfs', 'gpfs', 'test'],
  space_system => Optional[Enum['MockSpaceSystem', 'GPFSSpaceSystem']],
}]`

### `Storm::Backend::FsDriver`

The FsDriver type for storm-backend-server

Alias of `Enum['posixfs', 'gpfs', 'test']`

### `Storm::Backend::FsType`

The FsType type for storm-backend-server

Alias of `Enum['posixfs', 'gpfs', 'test']`

### `Storm::Backend::Gsiftp`

The Gsiftp type for storm-backend-server

Alias of `Struct[{
  pool => Storm::Backend::Pool,
}]`

### `Storm::Backend::GsiftpPoolMember`

The GsiftpPoolMember type for storm-backend-server

Alias of `Struct[{
  hostname => String,
  port => Optional[Integer],
  weight => Optional[Integer],
}]`

### `Storm::Backend::Pool`

The Pool type for storm-backend-server

Alias of `Struct[{
  balance_strategy => Optional[Enum['round-robin', 'smart-rr', 'random', 'weight']],
  members          => Array[Struct[{
    hostname => String,
    port     => Optional[Integer],
    weigth   => Optional[Integer],
  }]],
}]`

### `Storm::Backend::Quota`

The Quota type for storm-backend-server

Alias of `Struct[{
  device => String,
  type   => Enum['username', 'group', 'fileset'],
  value  => String,
}]`

### `Storm::Backend::Rfio`

The Rfio type for storm-backend-server

Alias of `Struct[{
  hostname => String,
  port => Optional[Integer],
}]`

### `Storm::Backend::SrmPoolMember`

The SrmPoolMember type for storm-backend-server

Alias of `Struct[{
  hostname => String,
  port => Optional[Integer],
}]`

### `Storm::Backend::StorageArea`

<table>
  <thead> <tr><th>Property</th><th>Description</th></tr> </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr><td>name</td><td><b>Mandatory</b> - Storage Area's name used to initialize the default accesspoint and the VO name.</td></tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Alias of `Struct[{
  name                         => String,
  root_path                    => String,
  access_points                => Optional[Array[String]],
  vos                          => Optional[Array[String]],
  fs_type                      => Optional[Storm::Backend::FsType],
  space_token                  => Optional[String],
  authz                        => Optional[String],
  storage_class                => Optional[Storm::Backend::StorageClass],
  online_size                  => Integer,
  nearline_size                => Optional[Integer],
  acl_mode                     => Optional[Storm::Backend::AclMode],
  default_acl_list             => Optional[Array[Storm::Backend::Acl]],
  quota                        => Optional[Storm::Backend::Quota],
  dn_regex                     => Optional[String],
  anonymous_http_read          => Optional[Boolean],
  transfer_protocols           => Optional[Array[Storm::Backend::TransferProtocol]],
  rfio_hostname                => Optional[String],
  rfio_port                    => Optional[Integer],
  xroot_hostname               => Optional[String],
  xroot_port                   => Optional[Integer],
  gsiftp_pool_balance_strategy => Optional[Storm::Backend::BalanceStrategy],
  gsiftp_pool_members          => Optional[Array[Storm::Backend::GsiftpPoolMember]],
  webdav_pool_members          => Optional[Array[Storm::Backend::WebdavPoolMember]],
}]`

### `Storm::Backend::StorageClass`

The StorageClass type for storm-backend-server

Alias of `Enum['T0D1', 'T1D0', 'T1D1']`

### `Storm::Backend::TransferProtocol`

The TransferProtocol type for storm-backend-server

Alias of `Enum['file', 'gsiftp', 'xroot', 'webdav']`

### `Storm::Backend::Webdav`

The WebDAV type for storm-backend-server

Alias of `Struct[{
  pool => Array[Struct[{
    hostname => String,
    port     => Optional[Integer],
  }]],
}]`

### `Storm::Backend::WebdavPoolMember`

Since v4.0.0, the `hidden` optional parameter has been renamed to `published`.
Its meaning is now the opposite: a value of true means that the endpoint is published by info provider.
Default value is true.

Alias of `Struct[{
  hostname => String,
  http_port => Optional[Integer],
  https_port => Optional[Integer],
  published => Optional[Boolean],
}]`

### `Storm::Backend::Xroot`

The Xroot type for storm-backend-server

Alias of `Struct[{
  hostname => String,
  port => Optional[Integer],
}]`

### `Storm::CustomRepo`

The storage area type for storm-webdav

Alias of `Struct[{
  name    => String,
  baseurl => String,
}]`

### `Storm::Webdav::StorageArea`

The storage area type for storm-webdav.

Alias of `Struct[{
  name                           => String,
  root_path                      => String,
  filesystem_type                => Optional[String],
  access_points                  => Optional[Array[String]],
  vos                            => Optional[Array[String]],
  orgs                           => Optional[Array[String]],
  authenticated_read_enabled     => Optional[Boolean],
  anonymous_read_enabled         => Optional[Boolean],
  vo_map_enabled                 => Optional[Boolean],
  vo_map_grants_write_permission => Optional[Boolean],
  orgs_grant_read_permission     => Optional[Boolean],
  orgs_grant_write_permission    => Optional[Boolean],
  wlcg_scope_authz_enabled       => Optional[Boolean],
  fine_grained_authz_enabled     => Optional[Boolean],
}]`

